Hello friends, Rahul was a 32 year old IT
professional from Pune.  He thought he was totally
healthy.  He always went to the gym.  Sometimes I used to
drink beer on weekends but nothing major.
One day suddenly I felt severe pain in my chest.
Whenever there is chest pain,
our people think that the friend must have
eaten something spicy last night.  Because of that I have acidity.
But the situation turned out to be very serious.
Heart attack.  5 days of
hospitalization and when the bill came, it came to ₹4.5
lakh.  Who takes health insurance?  So
unfortunately health insurance was not
purchased.  Now imagine that your entire life's
savings are wiped out in a single medical emergency.
Now remember
this can happen to you too.  Yes, medical inflation
in India is rising at 14% annually, which is
twice the general inflation.  Even a minor
hospitalization can destroy your savings.
In this video I will tell you
how you can choose the perfect health insurance
policy that will keep you 100%
financially secure.  You will learn the
top seven hidden traps of insurance companies.
Five features that every health
insurance policy must have.
Family floater vs individual plan.
Which one will save you more money?  And
most importantly, at the end, I will tell you how
policies are compared.
Not only on the basis of premium but
also on the basis of promise.  If you stay till the end of the video,
you will know more about health insurance than the insurance agent.
But before we go any further, please subscribe to this channel
and hit the bell button
so that you do not miss such videos.
Hello friends, I am Sanjay Katharia
CF Your Business Plans Passive Income Coach
All Founder Profits First, I have brought
an amazing video on what are those things
which you should keep in mind while buying health insurance.
But before going into the policy, I will
give you such shocking data which you might not
even know.  In India, two out of every three
bankruptcies are due to medical expenses.  The
average ICU cost can range
from Rs 25,000 to Rs 500 per day in a good hospital.
Cancer treatments cost
more than Rs 20 lakh and 80%
of Indians still do not have health insurance.
He is severely underinsured.  You might be thinking that
I will get treatment done in a government hospital.
But the reality check is that
in India there are only five beds per 1000 people.  Yes.
Whereas WHO says that
it should be number 3 and
in countries like Germany it is around number eight.
Private
hospitals are your only option for quality healthcare and
in critical illnesses, time is of the essence.
You are not going to have that luxury of choice.
Now let us understand the basics of insurance
but in a slightly different way.  Let
me explain to you simply what
insurance means.  Imagine
health insurance is like a safety
helmet.  Premium is the cost of the helmet
paid monthly or yearly.  Sum insured
is the protection level that covers how big an
accident it will cover and claims are when
you actually have an accident.  You
need protection for that.  But this is
not a normal helmet.  There are hidden terms
and conditions which you should know.
I have done research from Ditto Health Insurance Guide
and they have explained these things
very clearly and they are
also the partners of today's video.  I
know that choosing the right health insurance may seem like
a complicated process to you.  There are
many terms like
copay, room rent capping, waiting period,
proportionate deduction and most of the people do
not even check these things before purchasing the policy.  If you want to understand
which policy is best, which hidden
terms should be avoided and how to
choose the right insurance, then you
can visit the website of Ditto Insurance.
Here's how to handle your entire documentation
process, Ditto
handles it free of cost.  And once
you have taken the policy, it is not that
Ditto's work ends, rather whenever you have to
cancel the policy,
Ditto handles the entire claim settlement process itself.
So, you can take a policy on a trusted platform like Ditto,
which does
not bother you by calling repeatedly like other intermediaries, as per
your convenience.
So go tension free
and give us a free consultation call.
If you want, you can take a
free consultation from Ditto by clicking on the link given in the description
and choose a better policy.
Here you
can also read in-depth articles and guides that will
help you avoid insurance frauds and mistakes.  Now let me
show you the Ditto website where you
can learn all these things.  Now we will discuss the
seven traps that insurance
companies set for you, the first of which
is the co-payment clause.  As
mentioned in Ditto's guide,
in copayment you agree that you will pay 10 to 20% of the bill
yourself.  Insurance companies say the
premium will be reduced brother, but let's do some math.
Now understand that the premium of the policy you purchased is Rs
7000 per annum.  When you
do this, the insurance company will say, brother,
we are giving you a discount of 25%.  That means there will be a
saving of ₹1750 per year.  But
if any disease occurs and the bill comes to Rs 2 lakh
and you have opted to pay 20%, then
you will have to pay Rs 400 from your pocket.  So
how many years will it take to recover your savings now
?  Almost 22.  If you
divide 400 by 1750, you get 22 years.  This
means that to save that ₹1750,
you can create a waiting period of 22 years for yourself
if you get any illness.
And here you can read that copayments
almost never make sense unless they are
mandatory.  Or you are buying it for
someone who is old and has some pre-
existing diseases.  But if you
are young and buying for yourself, then
definitely avoid the copay trap.  If you are liking the video so far then do
like it and keep telling me
in the comment section which is the term
where you are stuck in medical insurance.
Now we move on to trap number two, room
rent limit.  Room and restrictions are
not limited to just room costs.  If you
take a policy with a day limit of ₹5,000,
but book a room for ₹10,000, then doctor
fees, surgery costs, etc. are
proportionately deducted.  Now let us
see this with an example.  Surgery cost ₹50,000
but due to room rent limit you will
get only ₹25,000.  You will have to pay the remaining Rs 25,000
from your pocket and this is
explained very well in this article which
I have shared with you on the screen.
So what to do?  It is written here that
avoid policies with caps on room rent.
It's that simple.  Whatever policy you buy, there should
not be any room rent capping on it.
This will save you from trap number two.
Now let's come to the third trap.  This
is the most hidden trap.  The low premium of a policy of Rs 10 lakh is
also reasonable but it is
written in the fine print that if you undergo heart surgery then you will get a maximum of Rs 2
lakh.  A
maximum of ₹5 lakh will be given for knee replacement and a
maximum of ₹3 lakh will be given for cancer treatment.
That means if you get any such disease on which there is a
limit, then you will not get the full amount.
Even if your policy is worth ₹1 lakh,
if the maximum amount for cancer treatment is ₹
3 lakh, you will not get more than ₹3 lakh.
So what to do?  You should ask your agent whether there is
any sub-limit
for any particular disease.  And
you have to find out all these things
in the fine print and ask him.  Because
friends, we do not know which disease we will suffer from in our life.
That's why
we are taking insurance.  And if
they put restrictions on this even within the insurance, then there will be
no benefit in taking insurance.  Now let's come to
trap number four.  For pre-existing
diseases, companies make you wait for 2 to 4 years.  If
you have diabetes or blood
pressure problems,
any hospitalization related to these will not be covered for 4 years.
So if you want to avoid this, then
when you are buying an insurance policy,
its waiting period should be minimum.
Ideally it should be zero.  But if you have any
pre-existing disease then you will have to
take some waiting period for it.  But the
shorter you keep that waiting period, the
better.  Even if you have to pay a little
more premium.  Friends, there are people who do
chidgiri on premium.  They try to make
me save the premium.  Brother, do
n't try to save too much on premium.
Its annual impact will be ₹100000, ₹2000, ₹3000.
But once you get sick, it will
wipe out lakhs of rupees from you.  Like
we checked the copay cases.  Now the next
trap is no pre- and post-
hospitalization cover, this is very important.
Before going to the hospital, you have to get an MRI test done for
₹15,000.  The hospital bill is coming for
₹00.  After discharge, you have to take
medicines and follow ups which
cost ₹10,000.  Only
hospital bills will be covered.  The remaining
₹25,000 will come out of your pocket.  The
MRI you got done before entering the hospital
and the medicines you are taking
or the post-care you are taking
after leaving the hospital, all these will not be covered,
you will have to pay for them from your pocket.
Avoid these traps and take insurance for the
number of days or amount of pre and post hospitalization.
So how many days
should those be?  30 to 60 days.  The medical insurance company should bear all the expenses incurred
30 to 60 days before and
30 to 60 days after your hospitalization.
So please write this down also.
What do you think, do you have it or not, keep
telling me in the comment section and
interact with me so that you too can realize
what mistakes you make.  Trap
number six is ​​about daycare coverage.
You may have appendix surgery, eye surgery, and
many cancer treatments
that require less than 24 hours of hospitalization.
But many policies do
not cover all these.  That means if some
people get CATAC done then CATAC is done in the morning and gets
completed by evening.  So there are many such
operations in which you do
not have to be admitted in the hospital for more than a day.
So they are called day care.  Does
your policy cover daycare or not?
If day care is not included in your policy then
all these diseases will not be covered
due to which you may suffer loss.  So this is another
trap that you have to check in your insurance policy.
And trap number seven one
of the most important traps is
Unclear No Claim Bonus and Restoration.  No
Claim Bonus enhances your coverage.  If
you don't make a claim, like now I have
n't made a claim in my medical insurance for many years.  So when I started, the
medical insurance was around
₹20 lakh.  By the time it came today, the cover had reached ₹60 lakh
because
I had not made any claim.  So
you have to check whether this is in your policy or not.  The
next thing is the restoration benefit
which resets your coverage after a
claim.  It should not happen that I have made a claim of Rs
10 lakh and after that it is not getting reset in my policy.
My policy has been
reduced to that level.  So you have to check
whether you are getting no claim bonus
?  And also whether your reset is
happening or not whenever you make a claim.
But both these things are in the fine print.
Therefore, you will either have to read it
or ask your agent repeatedly for
clarification.  And I give you one
more advice that whenever you talk to Tito and
then when you make the final policy, then
you should get all these things on email
so that you will always be well secured.
So friends, after these seven traps, now you
know what to avoid.  So
let us know
what should be the must haves and what should be the good to haves in your policy.  There is
no room rent capping in Must Have, making it
easier for you to choose any hospital room.  Reasonable waiting period
maximum two years for pre-existing diseases.  There should be
at least 30 days pre and 60 days
post hospitalization coverage.   There
should be a list of comprehensive day care procedures.  Where more than 150
procedures should be mentioned.  There should be a restoration
benefit so that
your coverage is reset even after a claim.  Now
what are the good to have features?  Coverage of AYUSH.
What does Ayush mean?  Ayurveda,
Yoga, Unani and Shirodhara for alternative
treatments.  All these things should be covered for you.
Free health checkups should be covered for you.
Because prevention is better
than cure.  You must have domiciliary treatment cover i.e.
home treatment in case of emergencies.  There should
also be OPD cover
so that you can get reimbursed any small expenses
from the insurance policy.
I personally use Ditto's health insurance
comparison tool because
they have simplified it so much
and put it in an easy-to-understand format.
You can clearly see which
policy has which features.  Now what we will do is make
a real comparison.  Let
us now cover three plans that cover a
family of four consisting of two adults and two
kids.  Now let us come to Policy A whose
premium is ₹15,000 per year.  Sum insured
is 10%, room rent is 1% of sum insured.
This is the red flag.  There is no copay
and no restitution.  This also became another
red flag.  Pre and post coverage is for 30
and 60 days.  The waiting period is four years.
This also became a red flag.  But this is where
we look at Policy B.  The
premium for Policy B is ₹18,000 for the same ₹1 lakh.   But there is
no capping on room rent here.
Restoration is 100% unlimited.  Pre and
post coverage is 60 and 90 days and the waiting
period is 3 years.  very good.  Now let us come to
Policy C.  Here the premium is Rs 20,000.
For a cover of Rs 10 lakh.  Room rent is nothing.
Copay is nothing.
Restoration is 100% once a year.  Pre
and post coverage is 60 and 180 days.  And the
waiting period is
only two years for pre-existing diseases.  Now you have
three policies for the same amount of insurance.
Which one will you select?  Obviously we will
select policy C.  Even if your
premium is going up to ₹5,000,
you are secured here on every count.
Now you have to get your plan customized.
Every family's needs are different.  For
example, if you are a young single professional,
you should have significant critical illness
riders.  If you have a family,
you should have a family floater with maternity
benefits.  If you
are a senior citizen then your waiting period should be less.
Even if your premium is high, it will still
work.  And if you have pre-existing
conditions, then the shorter the waiting period for pre-existing conditions,
the better it is
for you.  So friends, let's finally
remember Rahul, with whose story
we started this video.  The
ending of his story was a bit sad but the
ending of your story can be quite different.
Right health insurance is not an expense.  It is
an investment in the safety of your family.
You can talk to Ditto's expert team to
get the right insurance policy as per your needs and personal conditions and
learn from the mistakes of others so that
you do not repeat the same mistakes.
For free consultation and spam free advice,
click on the link in the description below and select your policy correctly.
Friends, if you
liked the video then please like it.
Share this with your friends so that they don't make
such small mistakes in health insurance.  Do
n't get trapped in such traps and
know what a must have is?  What
is Good Have and how to compare policies.
Please let me know what other things you want videos on.  I am making a lot of videos
on insurance and mutual funds.  You
must watch that.  Subscribe to the channel and
press the bell button.
Till the next video, Jai Hind Jai Bharat.
[music]